>> Kyle Simpson: Since
it was asked earlier,
let's segue into a discussion of const.
Const is by most accounts
even better than let.
You should not even use let and you
should only use const wherever possible.
So the problem that I have with const
is essentially the const keyword
does not carry its own
weight within the language.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's a phrase that
is sometimes used in specifications or
standards.
When somebody says, yeah,
there might be a benefit, but
the cost is greater and
so it's not worth it.
And what I'm saying is, that there
might be a slight benefit to const,
it is not as significant as you
have been led to believe, and
there is a cost to const which
is in my opinion greater.
It doesn't carry its own weight.
That doesn't mean I never use it, it means
I am very sparing in when I use it and
I only use it in very specific cases.
As opposed to it's my general
replacement for all declarations.
So, the big cost that comes with const
is not even unique to JavaScript.
If you go on Stack Overflow right now and
search for
problems with the const keyword,
you'll find tens of thousands of
posts across a whole variety
of different languages.
Because it turns out, every time the const
keyword has ever been added to any
programming language,
programmers got confused.
And I think one of the reasons
they get confused,
is because when we think of const,
and we think of the word constant.
What we're thinking to ourselves is,
a thing that doesn't change.
>> Kyle Simpson: But that's not what
a programmer means by const, or
at least that's not what a programming
language designer means by const.
A programming language designer means
a variable that can't be reassigned,
and those are two entirely
different things.
Here, on line 4, am declaring a const,
a myTeacher that can't be reassigned.
So I get an error on line 5, but
look what happens when I declare
a mutable value like an array.
I'm not trying to reassign teachers
on line 8, so I get no error,
but I am actually still mutating
the value which is totally allowed.
This creates all kinds of frustration,
as a matter of fact,
some languages have struggled so
much with this.
Like for example Java,
they removed to the const keyword and
put in another keyword called final.
Just so they could sort of separate
themselves from the baggage of people
thinking that this thing meant
something that it didn't.
I'm not sure that final is better,
but that's what they did, okay?
So, there is a baggage
that comes with const.
And a new reader to your code unless
they are already well familiar with
the concept of const, and the idea of
the difference between mutable values and
mutable assignments.
It is more likely than not that a reader
could get tripped up when they see you say
const teachers equals and
then they see something like an array,
they are most likely takeaway
that they would get or
the most likely impression that they
would get is that the array won't change.
That it won't mutate itself,
that's not what you were saying.
You were saying, no,
I'm just not gonna reassign the variable,
so that when you mutate the array,
all of a sudden they get confused.
So the const keyword has this
problem to it, it has this baggage.
Now, you're supposed to use the const
keyword within a very small block, right?
You're supposed to keep
your block small and
you're supposed to use the const
key word within small blocks.
What the const keyword is actually saying,
from a semantic perspective is,
for the rest of this block,
I promise it's not gonna get reassigned.
I don't think that reassignment
is actually a big problem.
That isn't the source of bugs
typically in my program.
But even if it were a source of bugs, if I
use the const inside of a small block of
three to five lines of code, what I am
at best telling the user is, guess what,
on the next four lines of code
I'm not gonna reassign it.
Cuz there is only four more lines of code
in the entire program that could reassign
it, because of how lexical scoping works,
>> Kyle Simpson: The const keyword
pretends as if it's doing this
major awesome thing for us, and
it's not actually doing that much at all.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not
solving that many problems.
So it has this problems, and
it's not really solving the problem that
it pretends, it's kinda like a night
lighting in your child's bedroom.
It definitely makes your child feel better
that there's no monsters in the closet,
but we all know there's no
monsters in the closet.
So it makes you feel good, but I'm not
sure that it really is carrying its
own weight with the potential
of confusion that comes.
So, all of that taken into consideration,
my personal take on const is that I
only use it when I am assigning a value
that is already a primitive and
therefore immutable.
So I will only use const with things
like strings, Booleans, or numbers.
And I use it as a semantic place
holder for those literals.
So if have the number 13, and
that means something special and
magical in my program, I'll give it
the name special magical in a const
declaration instead of just using 13.
That's what constants
are supposed to be for.
They're supposed to give
semantic meaning as placeholders.
I don't think we need a const to prevent
us from accidentally reassigning things.
I just don't think it's that big of
a problem, at least in the general sense.
That's my take on const,
where many of the developers
out there will tell you
that you should use const.
And then you should use let and
you should never use var.
My advice is reversed,
you should default to using var.
Use let where it is helpful,
use const sparingly only with
immutable primitive values.